[MUSIC PLAYING]
Before creating a custom
plugin, you should
know why you want to do that.
The reasons are many,
but two obvious ones will
be discussed in this video.
First, you want to
add some functionality
to multiple players
without having
to copy the same code again and
again into different locations.
The problem with having the
code in multiple locations
is, of course, you have to
update it in multiple locations
if you want or
need to change it.
Creating the code as a plugin
will spare you this pain.
Another great reason for
creating a custom log-in--
and this includes if
you are only going
to use it in one location--
is a custom code can
become part of the player.
This means you don't have
to have the custom CSS
and JavaScript on
the actual HTML page
where the player is used.
In Studio, you can associate
the code with the player.
And then, it becomes
actually part of the player.
Once you do this, just
by using the player,
you're gaining the
enhanced functionality
the custom plugin provides.
Now that you know you can't
live without custom plugins,
so how do you build them?
The following
high-level steps present
a best-practice approach to
creating a custom plugin.
1, write the code for the
enhanced functionality
in one HTML page.
You will see this is the hard
part of creating a custom
plugin since the
process of converting
working code to a plugin
is quite straightforward.
2, create a new file that
contains just the CSS.
This simply means
copying the CSS
from the working code
to a separate file that
has a dot CSS extension.
3, create a new file that
contains the JavaScript.
This process is much like
creating the CSS file,
but there is a change
that needs to be made.
First, copy all the JavaScript
between the script tags,
and paste it into another file.
This file should have
a dot JS extension.
Then, alter the
line of code that
uses a get player method to
code that defines the plugin.
4, use the plugin by linking to
the CSS and JavaScript files.
Then, call the name given
to the custom plugin.
That's it.
You're now ready to build
your own custom Plugins.